# PSAS AV4 Raspberry Pi Carrier Board

## Overview

PSAS (Portland State Aerospace Soceity -- see http://psas.pdx.edu/) uses the Raspbery Pi rev 2 as a inexpensive "video to Ethernet" converter for our Avionics Version 4 (AV4) avionics system for our LV2 rocket. It's a little crazy to use a RasPi as a piece of rocket electronics, but if you hack it enough, *anything* can be rocket-rated. :)

## Functionality

- Use the PSAS "RocketNet Connector" as the Ethernet + Power connector
- Convert Vbatt (10 - 20 V) and convert to 3.3 and 5V using SPS instead of the RasPi's linear regulators.
- Add a FTDI 6 pin header for debugging.
- Add an buffered GPIO line output for triggering other things (specifically some GoPros).
- Add a RGB LED because, well, because RGB LEDs.


## Design, Manufacturing, and Test Log

### 2014-01-24

- Scanned RasPi in order to work out hole locations since no Gerber or copper drawing exists.
- Choose TI easy switchers because... easy.

### 2014-02-27

- Sent off v1 carrier to OSH Park for fab.

### 2014/0?/0?

- Soldered up board. Some assembly issues:
   - R6 and R7 are underneath the leads of U1 and U2, causing shorts.
   - Not enough clearance for a standard right angle RocketNet Connector (RNC)! So we had to use a temporary vertical one.
   - Ethernet connector holes were off by quite a bit (like 0.050")
   - REALLY need another hole for stability - the two holes aren't enough
   - 1/4 inch stacking height is unrealistic. Need more space between the boards. Choose 10 mm.

### 2014/06/24 

- Fixed all known v1 issues.
- Sent off v2 carrier to OSH Park for fab.
- Fixed some minor things after sending it off to OSH Park, will need to wait for v3!

### FUTURE

- Change the LED, which is now obsolete.
- Break out more GPIO for even more functionality.

